SERVICE MANUAL
Mullion Hi-Rise 275N SOLAS 
dot twin chamber lifejacket 
with Hammar hydrostatic mechanism.

1.0 Maintenance schedule.
 O nly a responsible officer may perform the checks mentioned herein. All checks shall be recorded in an appropriate 
 log - book.  The records shall include the lifejacket serial number, date of check, and the last date of service 
 (if applicable/ available).
2.0 Servicing/maintenance procedure at periods not 
 exceeding 12 months!!
	 •	The	lifejacket	should	be	visually	inspected	as	per	inspection	check-	list	and	the	
    service requirements recorded.  
	 •		 At	12	monthly	intervals,	or	immediately	if	the	lifejacket	has	been	inflated	or
   immersed in water, or load applied to harness/belt.
2
This manual is designed to help you ﬁt,      re-arm, 
2 On board service manual

3.0 check list.
The following parts / areas should be checked:
	 •	General	materials	/	webbings	/	buckles	/	crutch-strap
	 •	General	stitching
	 •	Zip	&	velcro	fastenings
	 •	Reflective	tapes
	 •	Automatic	emergency	light
	 •	Whistle
	 •	Automatic	firing	mechanisms
	 •	Co 2 gas cylinders
	 •	Oral	inflation	tubes	/	valves	+	full	lifejacket	inflation
	 •	Buddy	line
3
This manual is designed to help you ﬁt,      re-arm, re-pack and care for your Lifejacket. 
3

Mullion Hi-Rise 275N dot twin chamber lifejacket with 
hammar hydrostatic mechanisms
4.0 Service check procedure.
4.1 General check
•	Check	that	the	lifejacket	stole	and	cover	match	exactly	the	diagrams	as	attached	and		
 that all component parts are present.  
•	Check	for	damage	/	tears	to	all	materials	/	component	parts	/	trim	&	accessories.	
 
Any defects return to distributor / factory for service 
 Missing / defective crutch-straps can be replaced on board with new parts 
 supplied by Mariteam.  
 
Double zip fastening cover
25	mm	red	
grab / lifting strap
50	mm	webbing	 
harness and  
shoulder straps.
Crutch	straps	with	 
buckle	front	and	back	+	
retainer
Interlocking 
buckles D-ring fitted to 
centre front waist belt.
50	mm	waist	 
belt	+	retainer
Information label  
on the inside
Back	neck	velcro	
fastenings are  
intact and secure
FRONT BACK
4 On board service manual

4.2 General stitching
•	Check	all	stitching	are	intact	and	secure.
 If any defects are observed – discard the lifejacket or return for service
4.3 Zips & velcro fastenings
•	Check		all	zips	and	velcro	fastenings	are	intact	and	secure.
 If any defects are observed – discard the lifejacket or return for service
4.4 Reflective tape
•	Check	all	reflective	tapes	are	in	tact	and	adhered	securely	to	the	inflatable	chambers.
 
Any defects – replace with new reflective tapes supplied by Mariteam    
FRONT BACK
Life jacket inflatable  
bladder double chamber
Velcro to attach  
grap loop
3	x	22	cm	length	SOLAS	
marine grade reflective 
tape silver
150	mm	over	pressure	
oral tube with dust cap
Light strap
Buddy	line	
+	toggle
SOLAS	light
2	x	12	cm	length	SOLAS	
marine grade reflective 
tape silver
Fixation	point	for	 
inflation mechanism:  
•	Sealing	ring	for	Hammar 
•	Manifold	for	United	Moulders	
   or Halkey
25	mm	black	webbing	
for	fixation	bladder
in the cover
2	x	25	mm	black	 
webbing, at bottom  
bladder	for	fixation	 
bladder in the cover
150	mm	standard	
oral tube with dust cap
5	x	25	mm	black	webbing	patches	
welded on inside to seal stitches 
for	fixation	on	bladder	in	the	cover
5

4.5 Automatic emergency light
•	Check	light	function	by	switching	on	manually	&	/	or	immersing	in	water	
 and ensure light is securely fastened to inflatable chambers
 Any defects – replace with new light supplied by Mariteam
4.6 Whistle
•	Check	whistle	is	securely	fastened	to	inflatable	chambers	and	is	functional	
 Any defects – replace with new whistle supplied by Mariteam
4.7 Automatic firing mechanism
•	Check	date	of	mechanism	has	not	expired
•	Check	that	the	mechanism	window	is	not	showing	red
•	Check	that	the	manual	pull	handle	has	not	been	removed	or	partially	pulled
•	Check	there	is	no	damage	to	the	mechanism	body	and	back	assembly
 If any one of the above are found to not conform
 Remove and refit mechanism by following hammar instructions as attached: 
 reference diagram 
4.8 Co2 gas cylinders
To check  the cylinder, the hammar mechanism must first be removed as per 
the instruction attached and then unscrewed from the 
Hammar back assembly
1.	Check	the	cylinder	is	not	pierced	or	damaged	in	any	way
2.	Check	the	cylinder	is	not	corroded
3.	The	cylinder	is	less	than	10	years	old
 If any of these defects are found the cylinder must be replaced immediately 
 and the old one discarded / disposed of (parts supplied by Mariteam).
Automatic emergency light
Whistle
Co2	gas	cylinder
Neoprene sleeve
Automatic firing mechanism
6 On board service manual

4.9  Oral inflation tubes/valves & full lifejacket inflation
To check this a full inflation test is required as follows:
•	Check	that	both	front	and	back	oral	tubes	are	intact,	undamaged	and	black	dust	caps	are	fitted
•	With	compressed	air	equipment	or	a	manometer	and	through	the	standard	oral	tube	on	the	back	  
of	the	inflatable	chambers,	inflate	the	rear	chamber	to	0.5	p.s.i.	or	3.5	k.p.a.
•	With	the	same	equipment	inflated	the	front	chamber	through	the	front	oral	tube	with	over	pressure	  
valve until the over pressure valve “blows off”
•	Leave	the	lifejacket	inflatable	chambers,	inflated	for	a	minimum	of	12	hours
•	Check	the	inflatable	chambers	after	12	hours	–	if	they	are	still	at	full	pressure	they	can	be	deflated	  
by depressing each valve in the oral inflation tubes at front and back and pressing down on  
the	bladder	to	expel	the	air
If the inflatable chambers have deflated in any way after 12 hours the inflatable chambers must be rejected and 
returned to the manufacturer for an interchangeable replacement
4.10   Buddyline
Check	if	the	corde	of	buddy	line	is	intact	and	toggle	is	present.
5.0 General maintenance & cleaning
5.1   Cleaning of lifejacket
If any part of the lifejacket has been in contact with salt water or other contaminants such as oil, paint thinner it shall be 
sponged	off	immediately	with	amild	soap	solution.	Rinsed	with	clean	fresh	water	and	hung	to	dry.
  Do not immerse in water as this will activate the firing mechanism
  Do not use harsh cleaning agents / chemicals / dry cleaning fluids
  Do not place on direct heat to dry
5.2   Cleaning of CO 2 gas cylinders
Co2 gas cylinders after use / contact with salt water can be cleaned by wiping with a cloth soaked in clean fresh water  
and then dried immediately afterwards (to prevent corrosion) with a clean dry absorbent cloth
7

4  STEP 4 5  STEP 5 6  STEP 6
Take out the inner body with the gas 
cylinder, through the sealing ring.
Undo	the	neoprene	cover	from	the	
cylinder and now unscrew the back 
assembly of the inflation system 
from the gas cylinder.
Note: If hard to unscrew, hold the black inner 
body with a soft tissue/cloth and hold the cylinder 
with pliers or other holding tool. Dispose of used 
gas cylinder in an environmentally safe manner.
Reset	the	piercing	pin	by	rotating	the	
shaft in the inner body to a position 
where the underside monitor with eyelet 
surrounds the green dot in the centre of 
the indicator.
1  STEP 1 2  STEP 2 3  STEP 3
Lay life jacket (PFD*) on a smooth flat 
surface and wipe off any water. Hold the 
gas cylinder through the fabric with one 
hand.
* PFD: Personal Flotation Device
Insert	metal	key	(a)	as	shown	in	2a	and  
turn	the	key	counterclockwise	(CCW)
as	shown	in	2b	between	black	locking	
ring (b) and labelled yellow cap. 
The black locking ring will now turn 
counterclockwise	(CCW).
Now turn black locking ring 
counterclockwise	(CCW)	and	lift	off	cap.
Dispose carefully of used cap in an 
environmentally safe manner.
* CAP: yellow inflator operating head
6.0 Re-arming instruction
•	 Before starting the re-arming instructions ensure you have the correct re-arming kit  
with the correct size of CO 2 cylinder, and that the life jacket is dry.
•	 Keep the re-arming kit away from liquids.
8 On board service manual

7  STEP 7
9  STEP 9
8  STEP 8
Carefully	examine	the	top	of	the	new	
gas cylinder to make sure that it is not 
punctured. 
Screw	the	cylinder	into	the	body	and	
tighten it by hand.
10 STEP 10
Reinsert	gas	cylinder	and	inner	body	with	
gas cylinder pointing upward inside the 
life jacket. Let the sealing ring rest on the 
central body around the four lugs.
Carefully	slide	the	body	into	the	bracket.	Put	the	cylinder	
adapter tool on to the cylinder. Apply the torque wrench 
on to nut on the cylinder adapter tool and tighten the 
cylinder	to	a	torque	of	not	more	than	10	Nm.
11  STEP 11 12  STEP 12 13  STEP 13
Now check the automatic cap as follows:
Automatic:
Is red handle attached?
Is	expiry	date	ok?
Window	shows	green?
If “Yes” is the answer to ALL these  
questions,	then	proceed	to	n°	12.
Hold the gas cylinder through the life 
jacket fabric. Take the replacement cap 
with the pull tab pointing in the opposite 
direction of the gas cylinder  
(i.e.	down)	and	press	it	FIRMLY	onto	the	
inner body and sealing ring.
While	pressing	firmly	onto	the	inner	body,	
turn the black ring clock-wise until it 
snaps in the locked position.
Note: When	the	inflator	is	in	its	final	closed	
position, the gas cylinder, the side of the yellow cap 
and the pull handle should all be in line vertically!
SNAP
Make sure the  
neoprene hood is fitted  
back onto the cylinder.
The gas cylinder must be firmly tightened to 
the black inner body. The black inner body 
should be checked for any damage or splitting 
following this tightening.
9

 
 
Once both the bladder and cover have been finally checked, the bladder is packed into the cover using the 
method explained below and visually depicted in the packing procedure illustrations.
By	using	the	folding	method	and	fastening	the	buckles	on	the	waist	belt	and	crutch	strap	correctly,	the	bladder	
should work efficiently and open correctly when deployed.
01 04
05 06 07 08
09 10 11 12
02 03
Fold the bottom part of the right side 
bladder lobe (as worn) away from the 
lower edge of the cover.
Close back neck velcro. Fold the bottom part of the right side 
bladder lobe (as worn) back towards 
the lower edge of the cover.
Fold the right side bladder lobe  
(as worn) at the centre front edge 
twice in concertina style.
Fold the right side bladder lobe  
(as worn) at the outer edge once 
toward the centre front.
Fold the right side bladder lobe 
at the centre front (as worn) 
+ buddy line half next to the 
inﬂator.
Position the inﬂator pull cord and 
handle out of the back slot in the 
cover ensuring that it hangs down 
freely at the back.
Fold the top corner outer edge down 
and in towards the centre front.
With the bladder laid ﬂat on the table 
again proceed to fold and repack 
as per the illustrated diagrams as 
follows.
Fold hinge of bladder toward the 
neckline. Now the back part of the 
bladder should be laid ﬂat.
Fold the edge of the back part  
towards the neckline.
Fold the back part in 2 from  
neckline towards the outer edge.
7.0 Re-packing the lifejacket
10
On board service manual

13 16
17 18 19 20
21 22 23 24
14 15
Clip the crutch strap into the 
buckles on the centre back 
strap and left front belt 
Using the zip slider, pull the zip all the 
way from the bottom centre front up 
to the top back neck and ensure that 
you pull it all the way to the end of 
the zip under the velcro and fasten 
the velcro securely back over the end.
Then pull the zip slider all the way 
back down again to the bottom 
centre front. The zip should now be 
completely closed on this side and 
the bladder securely inside the cover.
Fold the bottom part of the left side 
bladder lobe (as worn) away from the 
lower edge of the cover.
Fold the bottom part of the left 
side 
bladder lobe (as worn) back to wards  
the lower edge of the cover.
Fold the left side bladder lobe  
(as worn) at the outer edge twice in 
concertina style.
Fold the left side bladder lobe  
(as worn) at the centre front edge 
twice in concertina style.
Position the inﬂator pull cord 
and handle out of the back slot in the 
cover ensuring that it hangs down 
freely at the back.
Attach the grab/lifting strap onto  
the velcro on the bladder.
Fold the top corner outer edge  
down and in towards the centre front.
Using the zip slider, pull the zip all the 
way from the bottom centre front up 
to the top back neck and ensure that 
you pull it all the way to the end of 
the zip under the velcro and fasten 
the velcro securely back over the end.
Then pull the zip slider all the 
way back down again to the bottom 
centre front. The zip should now be 
completely closed on this side and 
the bladder securely inside the cover.
 
 
 
1. 2.
1.
 2.
11

7 Storage
when	not	in	use	the	lifejacket	should	be	stored	in	a	well	ventilated	room,	not	subject	to	extremes	in	temperature,	extended	
periods of bright sun light, hydro carbon fumes, oils creases or concentrated ozone. The storage conditions must not be 
damp	or	extremely	humid.		the	lifejacket	must	always	be	dry	prior	to	placing	in	storage.	Lifejackets	held	in	store	must	be	
laid flat or hung from the neck aperture by suitable means. Prior to issue from store a visual inspection must be performed. 
A damaged lifejacket must be subject to the service / maintenance procedure before being issued for use or returned to 
the store.  Providing the storage conditions are satisfactory the lifejacket may remain stored between service/ maintenance 
periods.
8 Spare parts list
 
Description:	SOLAS	S.O.S.	light
Mullion	part	nr.:	LLI00000U
part description
Description:	60gr	cylinder
Mullion	part	nr.:		 LCY030000
Description:	Whistle
Mullion	part	nr.:	LWH030C10
Description: neoprene sleeve
for gas cylinder
Mullion	part	nr.:	1MZWA2YN3
Description:Solas	reflectors	self-adhesive
Mullion	part	nr.:	NR	IRFQ50MOR	12CM
Mullion	part	nr.:	IRFQ50MOR	22CM
Description: Hammar auto front
Mullion	part	nr.:	LIN01F000
Description: Hammar back
Mullion	part	nr.:	LIN01B000
For more information contact us:
MariTeam	A/S	
Marielundvej	17	
DK-2730	Herlev	
 
Telefon:	+45	39	18	66	44	
TeleFax:	+45	39	18	07	57
 