Lifejacket Quick Service Guide
www.spinlock.co.uk
ISSUED: March 2023
Registered design EC + US Patent No. 7631728
Issue Number: 1
UML MODEL
Deckvest DURO FC   170N & 275N


Contents
Legal Notice           2
Deckvest Range: Features         3
Service Station Requirements         4
Harness and cover           5
Quick Burst Zip Information          6
Ocean Signal MOB 1 AIS Device        8
Inflation test for the UML Mk5 and UML Pro Sensor ®     12
Bladders            13
Components for the UML firing heads       14
Components           16
Cleaning            16
Re-attaching components and arming the lifejacket      17
Pylon Light and Lume - On          18
Zip slider replacement           21
Repacking            23
Personal notes           26
If you need any assistance with servicing please contact: Deckware@spinlock.co.uk
1

IMPORTANT LEGAL NOTICE
REGARDING USE OF DECKVEST SERVICE MANUAL
1. This Approved Service Manual (“Services Manual”) is for use only by those persons at an
 Approved Deckvest Service Centre (“Service Centre”) who have completed the appropriate
 Deckvest service training provided by Spinlock Ltd (“Spinlock”) or one of its appointed training
 representatives (“Service Trainer”).
2. Servicing of a Deckvest life-jacket may only be undertaken by Spinlock or a person who has
 received service training by Spinlock or a Service Trainer.
3. The procedures set out in this Service Manual must be followed in order to ensure the proper
 and safe functioning of the Deckvest life-jacket. If the procedures set out in this Service Manual
 are not properly followed and carried out there is a risk of accident or death.
4. It is the sole responsibility of the Service Centre to ensure that the service of the Deckvest 
 lifejacket is carried out fully in compliance with the procedures set out in this Service Manual   
 and in accordance with the training that they have received.
5. The signature or stamp of or on behalf of the Service Centre on a Deckvest Service Sheet shall
 be deemed to be the Service Centre’s acknowledgment and confirmation that the service of the
 Deckvest life-jacket has been carried out in accordance with this Service Manual and the
 relevant service training.
6. Spinlock Limited (and its agents) reserves the right (but without accepting any obligation
 to audit the procedures being followed by a Service Centre to ensure adequate standards and
 compliance with this Service Manual.
7. Save for death or personal injury caused by the negligence of Spinlock or its employees for
 whom it is liable, the Service Centre indemnifies and keeps indemnified Spinlock Ltd against
 any claims demand proceedings liabilities damages or costs (including professional costs)
 incurred by Spinlock directly or indirectly as a result of or in connection with any failure by it or
 any of its employees or agents to comply with this Service Manual and the relevant service   
 training.
8. Save for death or personal injury caused by the negligence of Spinlock or its employees for
 whom it is liable, Spinlock shall have no liability to any person, company or other organisation
 whether in contract, tort, negligence breach of statutory duty or otherwise for any loss damage
 harm costs or expenses of any nature whatsoever incurred or suffered by such person, company
 or other organisation arising from or in connection with any error in or omission from this
 Service Manual or the service training provided by it.
9. The contents of the Service Manual (including this notice) are governed in all respect by the
 laws of England and the Service Centre or any other user of this Service Manual consent and
 submit to the jurisdiction of the courts of England in respect of any dispute or matter arising
 from or in connection with this Service Manual or the service training provided by Spinlock.
2

DECKVEST DURO FC FEATURES  
3
FRONT OPENING
HEAVY-DUTY
BUCKLE
PRO SENSOR ELITE
OR MK5i FIRING 
HEAD OPTIONS
EXTRA DURABLE 
COVER MATERIALS  
SHOULDER
FIT SYSTEM
SMOOTH
BODY ADJUSTER
SYSTEM
ID / ASSET
TRACK 
POCKET
MANUAL 
ACTIVATION 
HANDLE
SPRAY
HOOD
PYLON TM 
LIFEJACKET
LIGHT
LUME-ON
TM
LIFEJACKET 
ILLUMINATION
LIGHTS FITTED
ORAL
INFLATION 
TUBE &
WHISTLE
40MM
EXTRA WIDE
CROTCH 
STRAP
CHEST PACK
ATTACHMENT 
POINTS
QUICK 
BURST ZIP &
INDICATOR
WINDOW
AIS
MOB1
UNIT
HIGHLY
VISIBLE
RED LIFTING
STRAP
COMPATIBLE
WITH PRO-TECH
PROTECTIVE COVER

Operations
Must be an established Lifejacket or Life-raft service station already or be approved by a relevant 
National body or have the relevant experience.
Trained and qualified staff must be available to undertake training from a Spinlock representative.
Commit to give full contact details to Spinlock and ensure that they are registered in the service area of  
www.spinlock.co.uk/service
Commit to checking Spinlock site for latest information once every 6 months and be available for 
auditing at Spinlock’s request.
Facilities
Dedicated area and management system in place to manage the Service and record and file relevant 
details.
Have the correct and calibrated tools. These can be ordered from Spinlock if required.
     
   Torque driver     Digital scales         Adaptor
      DW-SV1         DW-SV2          DW-SV3      
  
Process
Follow servicing steps as outlined in this document or the latest copy available to down load from 
www.spinlock.co.uk/service
Complete the service log on the internal label.
Complete service certificate with approval stamp.
 
More copies can be downloaded from www.spinlock.co.uk/service
Service Station Requirements
*UML and Hammar units
  are on opposite sides
ISO 12402-3: 2020 - 150N Lifejacket
Minimum Buoyancy - 170N
ISO 12402-2: 2020 - 275N Lifejacket
Minimum Buoyancy - 275N
Cento - Minimum Buoyancy - 100N
4

Check all stitching for signs of wear or damage:
Locate manufacture date and serial number inside the 
cover, on the internal label.
Key stiching is in contrasting colours and located on the 
front of the harness.
Obvious damage, contamination or loose theads will make 
the harness unsafe.
Webbing: 
Check for damage especially to the edge of the webbing 
and ensure the buckles are not bent or damaged.
 If the buckles are damaged the harness will need to be  
 replaced (contact Spinlock).
Servicing steps  
1: Harness and cover
Materials:
Check all materials for obvious damage, general wear should not be a problem.
If the damage can not be repaired by a simple patch, then the cover will need to be replaced. If you 
are concerned about the affect of the repair on the functionality of the Deckvest contact Spinlock.
Crotch strap buckle on the legstrap part can be replaced. DW-BKL38
Zip:
Open the jacket fully by the yellow break section on the zip.
Check internal sewing especially the connection points for the bladder.
Seperate the zip and run the slider back to the start on the opposite side.
If there is damage to the teeth of the zip then the cover will need to be replaced (contact Spinlock).
If the zip puller is damaged or missing, this can be replaced see section 21. 
Check all webbing has been passed through all 
buckles correctly.
5
Jackets over 10 years old should not be serviced.


2: Quick Burst Zip Information
Stage 1
In order to open the Deckvest take the yellow part of the zip and pull apart. Then split the zip apart all 
the way around the Deckvest until you reach the opposite end.
Once you have reached the opposite side, ensure the slider is fully down to the bottom zip 
stop. The inside zip chain (RHS on image) can then be pulled out of the slider.
6

Stage 2
Once the zip has come apart, take the slider and move it back round to the start of the 
zip (nearest to yellow section) so the two zip sliders are together.
Once both sliders are fastened together zip up like a regular jacket, continuing over the yellow 
quick burst section until you reach the opposite side of the cover. Once this is done pull the Velcro 
cover over the yellow quick burst zip section to cover this part. 
NOTE: Deckvest Duro has one zip slider
7

8
1
Thread back up through second hole towards outer edge
Thread ribbon end through oral tube bracket.
2
Thread back through inside hole
3
Leave 60mm on tail from end of plastic
4
MOB 1 Fitting Instructions    
5
MOB 1 Ribbon + Clip + Slider

9
Pass ribbon up through outside slot hole
7
Pass ribbon down through
inside slot hole
8
Slide toggle on to ribbon and pass ribbon through 
inside slot hole on grey plastic activation slider on 
right hand side. 
6
037652
Leave roughly 60mm of tail of 
ribbon tail
Length of ribbon should roughly 
be the length from bladder weld to 
weld
9
Slide ribbon tail through
toggle
10


10
Attach slider to MOB 1
11
Place toggle into gap on right 
hand side of slider
Tail of ribbon should lay across slider
12
Attach plastic cap to MOB 1 unit
13
037652
Double check the ribbon measures no longer than the length of the weld to weld on the bladder
14

11
Attach bracket to oral tube and pass MOB1 unit underneath the bladder and then clip on to bracket.
15
Thread the safety laynard from MOB 1 unit through the webbing in the lower right bladder connection 
toggle and secure with a knot. 
This ensures the unit does not become detached when the bladder inflates. 
16


12
Must be conducted in a controlled service area to 
ensure no damage to the bladder, and kept at stable 
temperature.
A.  Remove cylinder and firing cap, inflate through  
 the oral tube with clean dry air (airline or similar)  
 until firm and lobes are touching. Approx 2 psi  
 (14 kPa).
B.  Leave cap off the oral tube whilst testing.
C.  Leave standing for 24 hrs in a temperature stable  
 environment. If more than a slight softening  
 (approx. 10%) the bladder must be replaced. 
 Pressure monitoring can be carried out over a
 6 hour period to check for leaks.
D.  Remove air from the bladder using
 suction - do not squeeze or crush  
 bladder.
3: Inflation test for the UML Mk5 and UML Pro Sensor ®
 Bladders can be replaced if damaged – see page 13 for Bladder identification instructions.

3.1: Bladders
1 2
Pass loop through bladder 
and push all the way 
through
Push toggle
through loop  Pull loop over 
toggle and check
 it is secure  
!
Note:
Some harnesses may 
include a black nylon 
washer. If this is included 
place back over toggle
Bladder Part Numbers     170N - DW-BLD/170UML/3      275N - DW-BLD/DURO275
Replacement bladders are available for models below - See harness batch number for identification. 
Batch number example         170N - 220101DDF  275N - 220101DF2
Replacing the bladder can be done by following the below instructions. 
Firing Heads if required 
DW-UMK5 - UML MK5 Firing Unit
DW-UPS - UML Pro Sensor Elite Firing Unit
 
13

washer. If this is included 
e   
Firing Mechanism - All Deckvests are automatic and use UML components either :
3.2: Components for the UML firing heads
Each Automatic capsule is stamped with an expiry date 
(see www.uml.co.uk for full details).
The automatic capsule has an indicator to show if it is
still armed, this may be green or black, and is
released once the head has been fired.
To remove the automatic cartridge, unscrew in 
an anti clockwise direction.
1. Check that there is no damage to the lanyard and handle.
MK5 used on plastic round manifolds with torx bolt
Pro Sensor Elite used on Plastic round manifolds with torx bolt
14
Used
Active
DW-UML5 - MK5i 
DW-UMLE - Elite firing head

Cylinders
33g CO2 cylinder 170N 
60g CO2 cylinder 275N
Unscrew the cylinder anti-clockwise to remove it
2. Ensure that the cutting pin and cylinder indicator pin moves    
 freely in the body.
3. Ensure that the cylinder sealing gasket or O ring is in place.
DW SV06
Replacement Cylinder O Ring for yellow UML Mk5
Fig. 1
- Check labelling on side to ensure it is correct gas and   
   specification 
33g for 170N 
60g for 275N
Check total weight against specification stamped on the bottle.
Check for corrosion
If the cylinder has slight corrosion as per fig. 1 it should be 
replaced to stop further spreading and damage to the 
bladder.
Check cylinders seals have not been slightly weakened 
at the end by unintentionally pulling the manual 
handle. This could cause the cylinder to release during 
temperate changes.
Add a strike mark on the cylinder to show it has been 
checked
DV-SV5 - Replacement UML Pro Sensor Cylinder 
Sealing Gasket 
15


60
30
140
22
4: Cleaning
If the product requires cleaning, remove cylinder and automatic components and clean by 
hand. Wash with mild detergent, Rinse in clean water maximum temperature 30 degrees. Dry in a 
ventilated area away from direct sunlight or heat. Avoid use of solvents or strong chemicals which 
could damage the components.
For 2012 models onwards the bladder can be removed and the cover section washed separately
60
30
140
22
60
30
140
22
3.3: Components
Oral tube
Check that the bladder can be inflated through the oral tube
and that there is no debris in the tube.
Spare Cap:  DW-SV07
Sprayhood
Check attachments are secure and that there is no damage to the window. 
2014 onwards Sprayhoods can be replaced on Deckvest 5D models
1 2
1. Thread webbing through buckle  
    at the back of neck 
 2. Thead webbing back through to  
secure.
Spray hood webbing should be left 
10cm Long
16

5: Re-attaching components and arming the lifejacket  
    UML Mk5 and UML Pro Sensor ® automatic firing heads
1. Check that the firing mechanism is tightend to the manifold  
 with a force of 3nm using a calibrated tool.
 To replace the parts you will need: DW-RAK
2.  Take a new automatic cartridge, (ensure that the   
 expiry date is a minimum 2 years away) and screw   
 on to the inflator head in a clockwise direction. 
 Screw on tight ensuring there is no gap between   
 the cartridge and the inflator.
3.  Check that the cylinder sealing gasket or O ring is correctly  
 fitted and screw in the new cylinder in a clockwise direction. 
 
 Re attach cylinder retainer
On the Pro Sensor, ensure that both indicators are showing green.
 On the Mk5 heads replace the green 
 retaining clip over the firing arm.
4.  Ensure cap is on the Oral inflation tube, the
 whistle and light are in place and that the   
 Sprayhood is securely attached.
Complete service log on the bladder label with a permenant 
waterproof pen. Show the date that the service was completed. 
The Cylinder must be tightened firmly by hand to 
ensure that it will not work loose 
17


2. Check the light functions
    Press and hold the test button for 3 seconds untill the light flashes
    Press and hold the test button for 3 seconds to switch off
    Pylon will automatically switch off  when button is not pressed
6: Pylon
3. Replacement light for all Deckvest Models:   DW- PY/L1 
    Take the Pylon stalk and place through the strap hole
    Pull the stalk through and attach the stalk bottom to the strap 
    Pylon stalk needs to curve inwards  (Spinlock Logo on the outside)
18

2. Lay the inflatable bladder on a table, as flat as possible. 
The two lights bond directly onto the underside of the  inflatable part of your lifejacket.  
The Lume-OnTM can only be attached to lifejackets with a separate inflatable and cover construc-
tion.
7. Leave the jacket for 24 hours to let the sticker adhere to the bladder before re-packing.
1. Make sure your lifejacket is clean and dry before application.
Open the lifejacket to expose the bladder. Unpack your lifejacket following the    manufac-
turer’s instructions.
If attaching to a used lifejacket, wipe the bladder area for attachment with a damp cloth 
and leave to dry.  Salt and other  contaminates will affect adhesion.
\\  Fitting the Spinlock Lume-On TM could change the performance and warranty of your lifejacket,   
     please contact your lifejacket manufacturer for clarification if you are unsure. 
     All Spinlock lifejackets are approved for use and fitting with the Spinlock Lume-On TM.
\\  Lume-OnTM lifejacket illumination lights are water activated. 
\\  LED lights illuminates the lifejacket bladder  to increase visibility. 
\\  Battery life - 6 hours (minimum 2 hours flashing at full intensity).   
\\  Lifejacket and bladder must be throughly dry before attaching the Lume-OnTM or the stickers will not bond.
4. Remove one of the Lume-OnTM stickers from the packaging, remove the backing paper. 
Stick the Lume-OnTM to the bladder in a position:
a. Clear of any toggles or straps.
b. Clear of any bladder folds or creases.
c. Where it will make contact with the water when inflated.
Ensure the positioning will not affect the packing of your bladder. Repeat process for the 
other side.
5. Stick each Lume-OnTM to the
bottom of the back of the bladder lobe, in the area pictured. 
Press firmly.
 
Lume-OnTM
LIFT
H
ERE
19

20
3. Turn the bladder over, you do NOT need to remove the bladder from lifejacket.
Watch the instructional video at www.spinlock.co.uk/Lume-On
6. Make sure the Lume-on is well stuck on the bladder by applying finger pressure all around 
the sticker.
8. Re-pack the lifejacket after 24 hours 
referring to the manufacturer’s instructions.
9. Lume-OnTM positioning on other lifejacket brands may vary. 
For best results inflate the lifejacket using the oral tube and position at the bottom of each 
chamber where the lobe would be in the water. 
See the video for more information.


21
Correct Zip position for a double puller zip.
7: Zip Slider Replacement
1. To remove or replace a  
 slider  
  
 Select the centre tooth (7th)  
 On outside of the zip chain  
 and remove using a pair of  
 thin nose pliers.
2. If removing a broken slider  
 move the slider to the gap,  
 tilt the front end up and  
 pull through.
The Deckvest Duro uses a single zip slider 
DW- ZPL/8 - Duro Zip Slider

3. Position the carriage onto the zip material and  
 against the next tooth.
4. Tilt the teeth in front of the zip to one side.
5. Pull down and backwards on the zip carriage 
 keeping the other teeth out of the way.
 The carriage should slide onto the track 
 (some force may be required).
6. Slide the carriage back over a few teeth to  
 ensure it has engaged properly.
22

23
8: Repacking
1. Check torx bolt is tightened to 3Nm with a torque driver.
 Check Cylinder and firing cap is secured correctly
 
Pro Sensor: Check to make sure the indicators are green
MK5: Check green clip is in place
Join the zip puller together 
The packing stage of the bladder is completed in 
three pleat stages, following the three reflective 
stripes. 
Make sure toggles are siting on top of bladder
Pleat 1 starts at the firing unit side
2. 
275N bladder will need to be tucked up 
underneath firing cap due to the size of    
the bottom lobes. 
3.
Start to zip the jacket up and tuck the 
breakout point cover into the pocket. 
4. 
Ensure the Lifting loop is not tangled up and to 
the side of the cover.


24
7. 
Once you have reached the top fold the bladder 
corners in so it sits neatly and continue to zip round
6.
If sprayhood is required for the order, attach lanyard 
to retainer strap via press stud
5.
If a Sprayhood os required this needs to be placed on 
top of the bladder towards the back so it is not behind 
your neck when bladder inflates
Make sure sprayhood comes underneath bladder
Scrunch sprayhood up (not fold) so it opens up easily 
Pleat 2 
Concertina top section and make sure the 
toggle sits on the top of the bladder


8. 
Pleat 3
Concertina the other side as before
10.
Concertina the bladder over the oral tube 
and whistle to so these sit at the bottom
to avoid protruding at the top of the cover
9.
If a Pylon light is required this should be placed 
next to the oral tube making sure nothing is 
caught or wrapped around the stalk. 
11.
Zip towards the last section 
Fold bladder end upwards
Place Pylon body under the fold
Zip round to close and tuck zip ends inside cover
25

26
Notes......

Spinlock Ltd
Birmingham Road
PO31 7BH
Cowes
United Kingdom
The Spinlock Deckvest is extensively protected under
various National, European and International Patents and
Design Rights owned by Spinlock Ltd 
For continuously updated user guidance go to
www.spinlock.co.uk
Spinlock supports the Royal National Lifeboat Institution (RNLI)
‘Sea Safety Lifejacket Campaign’
Spinlock Limited quality managment
system is accredited to 
ISO 9001 : 2015